Pomiar parametrów życiowych i zachowań człowieka w oparciu o analizę
uDopplerowską z wykorzystaniem sygnatur radarowych

Touch-free health monitoring and accident detection 
in smart-home applications exploiting radar signals
(Zrobić to capitalami)

Pomiar parametrów

Radar do pomiaru parametrów życiowych i zachowań człowiek


Wprowadzenie
Short range radar is recently widely studied for its micro-Doppler observing capabilities. Among other sensors, such as a video camera or thermal imaging camera, radar
offers measurements based on determining the distance and speed of an object without
collecting imaging data. It can operate in almost all conditions while maintaining the near
anonymity of observed targets, such as moving people or cars.
One of the possibilities of using these special features of radar is its integration in
smart home systems to improve safety and security. It can include various types of
functionalities such as unusual movement detection or measurement of human heart rate
and respiratory rate, while maintaining comfort and cost-effectiveness. This is therefore
a great opportunity when there is a need of touch-free vital signs sensor, for example in
various medical cases or in the elder care. 

Another life-saving issue is the detection of
dangerous falls, especially on steep stairs or while bathing. The latter case is particularly
important because tactile accelerometers, as in many situations, are not a convenient
solution here.
In recent years, much attention has been paid to better understand measurement-related
phenomena and develop hardware and signal processing solutions regarding the use of
radar in the above areas.

Furthermore, much research has been conducted on the devel-
opment of non-contact user-friendly interfaces based on gesture recognition. The first
commercially available gesture-classifying radar in a mobile phone already appeared a
few years ago in the case of the Google Pixel 4. 

Rozpoznawanie gestów i zachowań człowieka nie jest bezpośrednio związane z tematyką pracy, jednak klasyfikatory wykorzystywane do detekcji wypadków powinny brać pod uwagę także tego typu zdarzenia.
Jest to szczególnie istotne z punktu widzenia wnioskowania o groźnych wypadkach na podstawie całych sekwencji czynności, a nie samego tylko momentu upadku.

Praca ma charakter praktyczny z elementami badawczymi. W szczególności, znaczną uwagę poświęcono porównaniu algorytmów i rozwiązań sprzętowych w połączeniu z kompozycją demonstratora urządzenia.
Zostały podjęte także starania, aby korzystać z wszelkich współczesnych osiągnięć w poruszanych dziedzinach i w ten sposób utrzymać aktualność prowadzonych badań, a nowe autorskie metody przedstawić we właściwym świetle.


Scope of the work
The main objective of the work is to develop a radar monitoring system that would
perform two functionalities in a non-contact manner. The first functionality is the mea-
surement of vital signs, i.e. heart rate and respiratory rate. The second functionality is the
classification of human behavior in the context of detecting dangerous falls. Two radar
devices will be tested for the measurements - XY-DemoRad and the CN0566 radar from
Analog Devices. The measurement of vital signs and detection of falls will be performed in
real time. Additionally, the system will detect the presence of a person within the range
of the beam based on their movements. In the case of the CN0566 radar with angular
resolution, the beam will automatically follow the person. The results of the operation will
be displayed to the user in a web application on the phone or on a computer monitor.
_________________
Przegląd literatury w dziedzinie pomiaru parametrów życiowych.
Measurement of humen vital signs using radar is a widely studied concept due to its non-contact and attractive manner of operation. The genesis of the idea reaches early 1970, and its popularity is still increasing simultanously with the development of the related radar devices.


Currently, there is much research effort including different types of radar architectures and signal processing approaches used in this field. The most popular radar architectures for human observation and vital signs monitoring are Continuous Wave (CW), Impulse-Radio Ultra-Wideband (IR-UWB), and Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radars.
In this work, the effort is mainly put on the FMCW radar. However, in this chapter, the other types will also be discussed for deployment in the measurement of human heartbeat and respiratory signatures.

{General Measurement Principle}

The general principle of measurement is similar for all types of radar architectures. Radar can detect human vital signs thanks to the micro-Doppler phenomenon in the radio waves reflected from the human body.

Micro-Doppler signatures are the frequency changes of the reflected signal due to the specific movements of the  observed surface.
In this case, respiratory-related displacements and heartbeat-related vibrations of the human chest generate the observable response which is then extracted in processing.

Continuous Wave Radar
CW radar architecture is relatively simple comparing to the others. Its main components are oscillator, mixer, amplifiers, and filters. The received signal is compared with the transmitted one in terms of phase, which indicates Doppler shift related to target velocity. The main drawback of CW architecture is 

CW radar operates on the waveform without using frequency modulation. Therefore, the distance of the target based on the received echo cannot be determined. What is measured is the Doppler frequency shift related to the target velocity. While range resolution is not possible, the responses from objects in different locations can mix with each other reducing the original reflection complexity.

Impulse-Radio Ultra-Wideband Radar

Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave Radar



-czy przejsc juz do metod przetwarzania?
