Paragraph 1.

- general introduction about human observing possibilities using radar

\newpage % Rozdziały zaczynamy od nowej strony.
\section*{Introduction}

Short range radar is recently widely studied for its micro-Doppler observing capabilities.
Among other sensors, such as a video camera or thermal imaging camera, radar offers measurements based on determining the distance and speed of an object without collecting imaging data.
It can operate in almost all conditions while maintaining the near anonymity of observed targets, such as moving people or cars.

One of the possibilities of using theses special features of radar is its integration in smart home systems to improve safety and security.
It can include various types of functionalities such as unusual movement detection or measurement of human heart rate and respiratory rate, while maintaining comfort and cost-effectiveness.
This is therefore a great opportunity when there is a need of touch-free vital signs sensor, for example in various medical cases or in the elder care.
Another life-saving issue is the detection of dangerous falls, especially on steep stairs or while bathing.
The latter case is particularly important because tactile accelerometers, as in many situations, are not a convenient solution here.

In recent years, much attention has been paid to better understand measurement-related phenomena and develop hardware and signal processing solutions regarding the use of radar in the above areas.
Furthermore, much research has been conducted on the development of non-contact user-friendly interfaces based on gesture recognition.
The first commercially available gesture-classifying radar in a mobile phone already appeared a few years ago in the case of the Google Pixel 4.
Recognizing human gestures and behaviors is not directly related to the topic of this work, but classifiers used for accident detection should also take these types of events into account.
This is particularly important for inferring serious accidents based on entire sequences of actions, not just the moment of a fall.

The work is practical in nature and also includes research elements. In particular, significant attention was paid to comparing algorithms and hardware solutions, combined with the design of a system demonstrator.
Efforts were also made to utilize all current advances in the fields discussed, thus maintaining the current state of research and presenting new, proprietary methods in a relevant light.

\subsection*{Scope of the work}
The main objective of the work is to develop a radar monitoring system that would perform 
two functionalities in a non-contact manner. The first functionality is the measurement of 
vital signs, i.e. heart rate and respiratory rate. The second functionality is the classification 
of human behavior in the context of detecting dangerous falls. Two radar devices will be 
tested for the measurements - XY-DemoRad and the CN0566 radar from Analog Devices. 
The measurement of vital signs and detection of falls will be performed in real time. 
Additionally, the system will detect the presence of a person within the range of the beam 
based on their movements. In the case of the CN0566 radar with angular resolution, the 
beam will automatically follow the person. The results of the operation will be displayed to 
the user in a web application on the phone or on a computer monitor.
